Found an issue? Talk about it in the RF Discord!
Got a suggestion? Talk about it in the RF Discord!
Wanna chat with other RF players? Join the RF Discord!
Sleeping won't skip nights instantly.
Sleeping will speed up various processes.
Zombies drop cloth scraps, used for making beds... but you know that already.
Having an atlas in your hotbar will display a minimap.
There's many ways to automate many things.
Bellows can make fires last longer and speed up furnaces.
Bombs will damage mobs, but not blocks.
Campfires grant the Comfort effect when lit and stood near.
Crushing cinnabar will yield redstone dust.
Cooking pots can make meals and drinks that grant helpful effects.
Ovens can cook meals and pastries that grant helpful effects.
Blaze burners with cooking guides can cook automatically.
There are no stone tools in RF - only copper tools.
Chainmail armour, horse armour, saddles and name tags are craftable in RF.
Creeper spores can be thrown to spawn a horde of friendly Creepies.
Creepers won't damage terrain, but they will spawn Creepies.
The crosshair indicates your tool's effectiveness on the block in front of you.
Use bottles on crying obsidian to obtain dimensional tears.
Upon death, a totem will appear at your death point which holds your items.
Discs can be smashed into fragments, which can be crafted into other discs.
Diving gear and backtanks will let you traverse underwater more easily.
Dunes are rare luscious deserts with yucca trees and various other flora.
Leather armour protects against fall damage.
Chainmail armour damages attackers.
Copper armour has a unique effect when struck by lightning.
Golden tools increase drops from certain blocks and mobs.
Golden armour lightly protects against fire.
Rose gold tools dig quickly and cause blocks to drop in their purest form.
Rose gold armour protects against magic.
Steel tools dig slowly, but are durable and knock targets further away.
Steel armour protects against projectiles and getting knocked back.
Diamond armour requires mechanical crafters to obtain.
Electrum tools dig very quickly and deal extra damage when sprinting.
Electrum armour grants a movement speed boost.
Netherite tools light targets on fire & auto-smelt blocks.
Netherite armour protects against fire and getting knocked back.
Necromium tools slow down targets.
Necromium armour weakens nearby entities.
Various enchantments you may be used to no longer exist in RF.
Etching tables allow you to make your own music discs.
Animals can eat out of feeding troughs and breed by themselves.
Banners can be applied to beds.
Flags can be placed on sticks and then moved up and down.
Don't leave trees floating!
Item vaults can combine into bigger vaults when placed next to each other.
Fluid tanks can combine into bigger tanks when placed next to each other.
Flutes can be assigned to tamed mobs and will call them from far away.
Some fungi planted on rich soil will grow into colonies.
Furnace boats can be fueled with coal to go faster.
Furnace minecarts will load chunks when fueled.
Lighting copper-related blocks on fire will create green cupric fire.
Hollow logs will let you crawl inside them by sneaking next to them.
Ice will drop ice cubes when mined with a pickaxe. They're crunchy.
Kilns smelt what smokers & blast furnaces can't, and 2x quicker than a furnace.
Killing various mobs with knives may cause them to drop extra items.
Days and nights are longer in RF.
Stripping maple logs will sometimes reveal sap that you can bottle.
Stressometers will visualise the stress level of your machines.
Speedometers will visualise the speed of your machines.
Minecart couplings will allow you to link minecarts together.
Melons will cause you to spit seeds when consumed.
Wildfires will drop ancient scrap.
Piglin Brutes will drop ancient scrap.
Piglins and Hoglins can be made immune to zombification with a golden apple.
Zombified Piglins and Zoglins can be cured with weakness and a golden apple.
Pikes come in various sizes and colours.
Rough gems can be polished with sand paper or a grindstone.
Potato cannons use various foods as ammo.
Presents allow you to gift a stack of items to a player.
Trapped presents will instantly release their contents when opened.
Redstone links can transmit redstone signals wirelessly.
Rerack your trees!
Bundles and sacks will let you carry more items.
Schematicannons can build for you when provided with blueprints and materials.
Skillets can be held/placed over fire to cook food on the go.
Skillets and cooking pots always drop items or containers to their right.
All hail the Slabfish.
Baby Snails will drop snail shell pieces when they grow into adults.
Snow boots will allow you to move faster over snowy blocks.
Soap can clean dye off blocks.
Stoves are like campfires, except they have 6 spaces instead of 4.
Too many machines attached to a single power source may cause overstress.
Suspicious stews can only be obtained from loot and brown mooshrooms.
You can find wild tea in swamps and wild coffee in basalt deltas.
You can find eggplants in jungles and rainforests.
Thrashers roam deep frozen oceans and will attack if they locate you.
Torch arrows place torches where they land or light mobs they hit on fire.
Trains allow for mass item transport and highly stylish travel.
Both types of water wheels are cheap sources of rotational power.
The wood type of water wheels can be changed by right-clicking with planks.
There are numerous wood types in RF. Which one's your favourite?
Shearing Yaks will yield yak hair, but it'll also make them angry at you.
Shearing Bears will yield bear fur, but it'll also make them angry at you.
Shearing Mooblooms will yield a few buttercups and turn them into regular cows.
Awoken exopearls will fly towards ruined structures.
Spirited exopearls will fly towards structures with spawners.
Hand a binding exopearl to another player to easily locate them.
Using scaffolding can make building easier.
Lead can be used as an alternative to iron in various recipes.
Compasses, depth gauges, atlases and spyglasses are helpful to bring along.
Paragliders allow for slower descension.
Smoke from fires will boost you up when using a paraglider.
Koi fish will reduce hostile mob spawns in an area.
Large obsidian spikes in the Nether are easy sources of blazes.
Blaze spawners will also fill empty Blaze burners when right-clicked.
Cages allow you to capture small to medium-sized mobs.
The Nether is a lot taller and denser than normal.
Bronze has musical properties.
Use display boards to display specific information about your machinery.
Steam engines can provide large amounts of stress capacity.
Lava oceans in the Nether are big enough to pump an infinite amount of lava.
Trains can go through Nether portals if there's a track on the other side.
Unstable spawners spawn a horde of mobs which will drop extra goodies.
Craft lightning rods to redirect lightning, or to create a helpful buddy.
Large boats can carry higher amounts of passengers or larger ones.
Crawling through tight spaces can be useful in sticky situations.
Various recipes have the potential to leave byproducts.
Sculk shriekers will give you three warnings before releasing the beast.
Ancient cities contain major loot - a high risk, high reward adventure.
Deep in underwater caves, you may find groups of nautili swimming around.
Hostile mobs become neutral on Easy difficulty.
Mimes will copy your held item - and worn armour, if they hit you.
Deepers will explode and destroy terrain, but are only found underground.
While Creepers don't blow up blocks, Deepers do.
Peepers only move when you're not looking.
Cameras will allow you to capture precious moments.
Leather can be cut into scraps and used more efficiently.
Bundles and sacks can be dyed.
Glow ink sacs can heal dead coral.
Cattails grow best on mud.
Brushes will allow you to brush some animals for drops.
Glue brushes can glue blocks together.
Wax brushes can wax loads of blocks at once.
Shift + T while hovering over an item will share it in chat.
Tackle boxes can customise reinforced fishing rods.
Worms will shorten the time it takes to catch a fish.
Feeding Chickens, Ducks or Turkeys corn kernels will make them find wormy dirt.
Different hooks have a different impact on the fishing experience.
Holding a water bucket in the offhand will make caught fish go in the bucket.
Copper and gold can be hammered into sheets, with a chance of breaking.
A storage interface and terminal allow for a more unified storage system.
Fortresses have gotten reinforcements and a refreshed layout.
Copper Golems can be created with a carved pumpkin and a lightning rod.
Tuff Golems can be created with a carved pumpkin, any wool and a tuff block.
Crops can be harvested by right-clicking them.